1. Match the following definitions with the correct terms:
    Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction:
    A primarily vertical shaft that encloses at least one flue for conducting flue gases outdoors:
    An appliance constructed so that all the combustion air is supplied directly from, and the products of combustion are vented directly to, the outdoors by independent enclosed passageways connected directly to the appliance:
    A device, either adjustable or non-adjustable, for controlling and maintaining, within acceptable limits, a uniform outlet pressure:
    a) Direct-vent appliance
    b) Pressure regulator
    c) Approved
    d) Chimney
    Answer:
    Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction: c) Approved
    A primarily vertical shaft that encloses at least one flue for conducting flue gases outdoors: d) Chimney
    An appliance constructed so that all the combustion air is supplied directly from, and the products of combustion are vented directly to, the outdoors by independent enclosed passageways connected directly to the appliance: a) Direct-vent appliance
    A device, either adjustable or non-adjustable, for controlling and maintaining, within acceptable limits, a uniform outlet pressure: b) Pressure regulator

2. Indicate True or False:
	A venting system removes flue gases to the outdoors by means of a chimney, vent connector vent, or a natural or mechanical exhaust system,
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
    通风系统（venting system）通过烟囱、通风连接管或自然或机械排气系统将烟气排出室外。

3. Which of the following describes a continuous pilot?
    a) A pilot that is automatically lighted each time there is a call for heat, and that is cut off automatically at the end of the trial-for-ignition period of the main burner
    b) A pilot that burns without turndown throughout the entire time the burner is in service, whether the main burner is firing or not.
    c) A pilot that is automatically lighted each time there is a call for heat, and that burns during the entire period that the main burner is firing.
    Answer: b
    连续式熄火装置（continuous pilot）是指在燃烧器工作期间持续燃烧的熄火装置，无论主燃烧器是否点火。

4. Indicate True or False:
	An enclosed structure is the entire building in which an appliance is installed.
    a) False
    b) True
    Answer: b
    封闭式结构（enclosed structure）是指安装有器具的整个建筑物。

5. What type of burner is not equipped with a mechanical device for supplying combustion air?
    a) Forced-draft burner
    b) Fan-assisted burner
    c) Natural-draft burner
    Answer: c
    自然通风燃烧器（natural-draft burner）没有配备用于提供燃烧空气的机械装置。

6. Match the maximum gas pressures (in psig) permitted inside the following buildings.
    One- and two-family dwellings and row housing:
    Residential (other than one- and two-family dwellings and row housing):
    Hotels and motels:
    Care or detention and assembly buildings:
    Commercial buildings:
    Industrial buildings:
    Central-heating plants:
    a) 20 psig (140 kPa)
    b) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    d) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    e) 66 psig (450 kPa) for natural gas and 20 psig (140 kPa) for propane
    f) 2 psi (14kPa)
    Answer:
    One- and two-family dwellings and row housing: f) 2 psi (14kPa)
    Residential (other than one- and two-family dwellings and row housing): b) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    Hotels and motels: d) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    Care or detention and assembly buildings: d) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    Commercial buildings: e) 66 psig (450 kPa) for natural gas and 20 psig (140 kPa) for propane
    Industrial buildings: e) 66 psig (450 kPa) for natural gas and 20 psig (140 kPa) for propane
    Central-heating plants: c) 66 psig (450 kPa) for natural gas and 20 psig (140 kPa) for propane

7. Where can you determine the volume of gas to be used for sizing pipe systems to an appliance?
    a) The appliance rating plate or the appliance manufacturer
    b) The back of the Codebook
    c) In the Regulation
    Answer: a
    您可以在器具额定铭牌或器具制造商（appliance rating plate or the appliance manufacturer）处确定用于器具管道系统尺寸的燃气量。

8. According to CSA B149.1 Table 6.1, what is the maximum allowable pressure drop when a natural gas piping and tubing system supply pressure is less than 7 inches w.c.?
    a) 1 inch w.c. (0.250 kPa)
    b) There is no maximum allowable pressure drop
    c) 0.5 inches w.c. (0.125 kPa)
    Answer: a
    根据 CSA B149.1 表 6.1，当天然气管道和管路系统的供应压力低于 7 英寸水柱（inches w.c.）时，允许的最大压降为 1 英寸水柱（0.250 kPa）。

9. Can a gas pipe be supported by another gas pipe?
    a) Yes, if it is a smaller diameter
    b) Yes, if it is a larger diameter
    c) No
    Answer: c
    燃气管道（gas pipe）不能由另一根燃气管道支撑。

10. Match the correct depth of cover required on an underground gas line for the following installations?
    a) Residential:
    b) Commercial driveway:
    c) Parking lot:
    a) 24 inches (610 mm)
    b) 15 inches (400 mm)
    c) 24 inches (610 mm)
    Answer:
    a) Residential: a) 24 inches (610 mm)
    b) Commercial driveway: b) 15 inches (400 mm)
    c) Parking lot: c) 24 inches (610 mm)

11. Can gas piping be passed under a building?
    a) Yes, if it is at least 24 inches (610 mm) below the footings
    b) Yes, if it is at least 15 inches (400 mm) below the footings
    c) No
    Answer: a
    燃气管道（gas piping）可以从建筑物下方穿过，但必须位于距基础（footings）至少 24 英寸（610 毫米）以下。

12. When piping is extended from one building to another, where must the shut-off valves be located?
    a) At the point of exit of the first building and the point of entry of the second building
    b) At the appliance
    c) At the meter
    Answer: a
    当管道从一栋建筑延伸到另一栋建筑时，关闭阀（shut-off valves）必须位于第一栋建筑的出口点和第二栋建筑的入口点。

13. What is the minimum clearance required for each side of a commercial clothes dryer and the combustible material?
    a) 12 inches (300 mm)
    b) 18 inches (450 mm)
    c) 48 inches (1200 mm)
    d) 24 inches (610 mm)
    Answer: b
    商业干衣机（commercial clothes dryer）与可燃材料之间的侧面最小净空距离为 18 英寸（450 毫米）。

14. Match the minimum clearance required for each side of a central furnace and the combustible material?
    Above:
	Sides and rear:
    Front:
    a) 6 inches (150 mm)
    b) 1 inch (25 mm)
    c) 24 inches (600 mm)
    Answer:
    Above: c) 24 inches (600 mm)
    Sides and rear: a) 6 inches (150 mm)
    Front: a) 6 inches (150 mm)

15. What type of room heater is allowed in a bathroom?
    a) Direct-vent type
    b) Ventless
    c) Electric only
    Answer: a
    允许在浴室（bathroom）中使用直接通风型（direct-vent type）房间加热器。

16. Match the minimum clearance is required for each side of a swimming pool heater and the combustible material?
    Vertical:
	Sides and rear:
    Front:
    a) 18 inches (450mm)
    b) 48 inches (1 200 mm)
    c) 18 inches (450 mm)
    Answer:
    Vertical: b) 48 inches (1 200 mm)
    Sides and rear: c) 18 inches (450 mm)
    Front: a) 18 inches (450mm)

17. How far from a property line must a natural gas cylinder be stored if the aggregate capacity of the expanded gas exceeds 18 000 cubic feet (500 000 L)?
    a) 100 ft (15 m)
    b) 75 ft (11.25 m)
    c) 50 ft (7.5 m)
    Answer: c
    如果天然气（natural gas）的总容量超过 18,000 立方英尺（500,000 升），则必须在距离财产线（property line）50 英尺（7.5 米）处存放。

18. May a vehicle that is being refuelled with natural gas have its engine running?
    a) Yes, provided it is 25 feet from a building
    b) No
    Answer: b
    正在用天然气（natural gas）加气的车辆不得启动发动机。

19. Who may transfer propane from one container to another?
    a) Anyone as long as they stay in attendance at the transfer point
    b) The holder of a certificate recognized by the authority having jurisdiction
    c) A person trained by the employer on the operation of the equipment
    Answer: b
    只有持有获得管辖权机构认可的证书（certificate recognized by the authority having jurisdiction）的人员才能在容器之间转移丙烷（transfer propane）。

20. What is the maximum permitted filling density of a propane cylinder?
    a) 65%
    b) 100%
    c) 80%
    d) 90%
    Answer: a
    丙烷钢瓶（propane cylinder）的最大允许填充密度（maximum permitted filling density）为 65%。

21. In which tables of the Propane storage and handling code can the maximum filling density of a propane tank be found?
    a) Tables C2 and C3
    b) Tables 7.3 and 7.4
    c) Tables 7.1 and 7.2
    Answer: c
    您可以在丙烷储存和处理规范（Propane storage and handling code）的表格 7.1 和 7.2 中找到丙烷罐的最大填充密度。

22. May a building that has a propane vaporizer be permitted to have a drain to a sewer or a sump pit?
    a) Yes, provided it has a removable cap
    b) No
    Answer: b
    不允许在有丙烷汽化器（propane vaporizer）的建筑物中设置通往下水道或集水坑的排水口。

23. Propane-burning appliances installed in a recreational vehicle must comply with which standard?
    a) CSA Z240.4
    b) CSA B149.2
    c) CSA B149.3
    Answer: b
    安装在房车（recreational vehicle）中的丙烷燃烧器具（Propane-burning appliances）必须符合 CSA B149.2 标准。

24. What are the installer's responsibilities towards the user before he or she leaves an installation?
    a) Shall instruct the user in the safe and correct operation of all appliances or equipment installed
    b) Shall advise the user the instructions have been left with the appliance
    c) Shall instruct the user to read the manufacturers literature while the installation is being completed
    Answer: a
    在离开安装现场之前，安装人员（installer）有责任向用户（user）说明所有已安装器具或设备的正确安全操作方法。

25. What Standard must meter and service regulator installations be in accordance with?
    a) CSA Z662
    b) CSA B149.2
    c) CSA B149.1
    d) CSA B149.3
    Answer: c
    仪表和维修调节器安装（meter and service regulator installations）必须符合 CSA B149.1 标准。

26. Suppose an appliance requires a clearance of 24 inches. By how much can the clearance above the appliance be reduced if the surrounding area is covered with 28 gauge sheet metal, spaced out 1 inch?
    a) 9 inches
    b) 6 inches
    c) 12 inches
    d) 3 inches
    Answer: b
    如果器具上方周围区域被 1 英寸（25 毫米）间距的 28 号钣金覆盖，则净空距离可以减少 6 英寸（150 毫米），从 24 英寸减至 18 英寸。

27. Suppose an appliance requires a clearance of 24 inches. By how much can the clearance at the sides and rear of the appliance be reduced if the surrounding surface is covered with 28 gauge sheet metal, spaced out 1 inch?
    a) 12 inches
    b) 6 inches
    c) 9 inches
    d) 3 inches
    Answer: c
    如果器具的侧面和后部被 1 英寸（25 毫米）间距的 28 号钣金覆盖，则净空距离可以减少 9 英寸（225 毫米），从 24 英寸减至 15 英寸。

28. In general, what is the minimum service clearance surrounding an appliance?
    a) 18 inches
    b) 24 inches
    c) 12 inches
    d) 36 inches
    Answer: c
    通常，器具周围的最小维修净空距离（minimum service clearance）为 12 英寸（300 毫米）。

29. Indicate True or False:
	A furnace or water heater needs to be certified specifically for use within a mobile home if the home has been placed in a permanent location.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: b
    如果房屋已永久安放，则不需要对用在活动房屋中的炉子或热水器进行专门认证。

30. Who is responsible for inspecting and determining whether a used appliance is suitable for continued use?
    a) The installer
    b) The homeowner
    c) The manufacturer
    d) The fuel supplier
    Answer: d
    燃料供应商（fuel supplier）负责检查和确定二手器具是否适合继续使用。

31. If there is a conflict between the manufacturer's certified installation instructions and the Codebook, which requirements are to be followed?
    a) The Code
    b) The manufacturer's instructions
    c) Either requirement can be followed
    Answer: a
    如果在制造商的认证安装说明（manufacturer's certified installation instructions）和规范手册（Codebook）之间存在冲突，则应遵循规范的要求。

32. What are the minimum dimensions of an access opening to a space containing a gas appliance?
    a) 24 x 30 in (610 × 760 mm)
    b) 18 x 18 in (450 × 450 mm)
    c) 30 x 30 in (760 × 760 mm)
    d) 24 x 24 in (610 × 610 mm)
    Answer: d
    包含燃气器具的空间的最小检修口尺寸为 24 x 24 英寸（610 x 610 毫米）。

33. What is the minimum distance an appliance burner may be located from the floor of a repair garage?
    a) 4.5 ft (1 400 mm)
    b) 18 inches (450mm)
    c) 36 inches (900 mm)
    d) 24 inches (610 mm)
    Answer: c
    器具燃烧器（appliance burner）距离维修车库（repair garage）地板的最小距离为 36 英寸（900 毫米）。

34. What must be done with a defective heat exchanger of a furnace?
    a) It shall be replaced
    b) It should be patched
    c) It should be welded
    Answer: a
    有缺陷的熔炉换热器（defective heat exchanger of a furnace）必须被更换。

35. Indicate True or False:
	If in compliance with procedures acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction, a defective heat exchanger of a commercial or industrial appliance can be repaired?
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: b
    根据管辖权机构可接受的程序，不能维修商用或工业器具（commercial or industrial appliance）的缺陷换热器。

36. What are the controls necessary for two or more appliances with self-energizing pilots?
    a) Each installed separately with separate thermostats
    b) Installed with one thermostat to control all of the appliances
    Answer: a
    具有自给能熄火装置的两个或多个器具需要单独安装各自的恒温器（separate thermostats）。

37. Suppose an appliance rating plate specifies a minimum clearance of 36 inches. What clearance can be used if the surrounding area is covered with 1/4 inch insulating millboard, spaced at 1 inch?
    a) Above: 6 inches (150mm), sides and rear: 18 inches (450mm)
    b) Above: 9 inches (225 mm), sides and rear: 9 inches (225mm)
    c) Above: 6 inches (150mm), sides and rear: 12 inches (300mm)
    Answer: c
    如果器具额定铭牌规定最小净空距离为 36 英寸，并且周围区域覆盖有 1 英寸间距的 1/4 英寸隔热纤维板，则上方净空距离可减少至 6 英寸（150 毫米），侧面和后部可减少至 12 英寸（300 毫米）。

38. Is a gas technician/fitter permitted to replace electrical components that are directly related to the operation of a gas appliance?
    Answer: The provided documents do not directly answer this question. However, it is implied that work on electrical components directly related to the operation of a gas appliance would require appropriate certifications, such as those for electrical work, in addition to gas technician qualifications.

39. Service a process boiler having an input rate of 800 000 Btu/h (234 kW). name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: The provided documents do not specify the exact certificates or licenses for servicing a process boiler with an input rate of 800,000 Btu/h (234 kW). It is generally implied that higher levels of certification or specialized certifications would be required for commercial or industrial applications beyond the scope of basic residential gas technician certificates.

40. Cleaning a domestic gas furnace. name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: The provided documents suggest that a Gas Technician 3 (G.3 certificate) may clean appliances under general supervision, or a Gas Technician 2 (G.2 certificate) or Gas technician 1 (G.1 certificate) may supervise this task. For unsupervised work, at least a G.2 certificate would likely be required for servicing a domestic gas furnace.

41. Install, test, reactivate, or remove gas piping or tubing downstream of a natural gas meter or propane vapor service valve. name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: Based on the text, a Gas Piping Fitter (GP certificate) is involved with gas piping and tubing systems, and a G.1, G.2, or DA certificate holder can supervise a G.3. For unsupervised work on gas piping, at least a GP or a higher-level gas technician certificate (G.2 or G.1) would likely be required.

42. Disconnect and reconnect 5 feet (1.5m) (or less) of water piping, measured horizontally, in order to exchange or install an appliance. name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: The documents state that a Gas Technician certificate holder (G.1, G.2, or DA) may disconnect and reconnect water piping to exchange, service, or install an approved appliance, provided they do not perform additional plumbing unless they hold a valid certificate of qualification as a plumber or steamfitter. Therefore, a G.1, G.2, or DA certificate holder could perform this under supervision if they are not a plumber/steamfitter, or unsupervised if they hold the appropriate plumbing/steamfitter certification.

43. Install a 350 000 Btu/h (102 kW) gas water heater in a commercial building. name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: For commercial buildings, a higher level of certification is typically required. A G.1 certificate is the highest level and covers work on natural gas and propane appliances of any BTU input. A G.2 certificate is limited to appliances with inputs of 400,000 Btuh or less. Therefore, for a 350,000 Btu/h appliance in a commercial building, a G.1 certificate would be required for unsupervised work, and potentially a G.2 under the supervision of a G.1.

44. Install an unvented residential gas appliance of 100 000 Btu/h (29 kW). name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: For a residential gas appliance with an input of 100,000 Btu/h, a G.2 certificate holder can perform this unsupervised. A G.3 certificate holder could perform this under the general supervision of a G.1, G.2, or DA certificate holder.

45. Service or install liquid propane piping or tubing systems and components. name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities.
	Supervised:
	Unsupervised:
    Answer: Persons authorized to work on liquid propane systems require an LP certificate as an endorsement to their existing certification. For unsupervised work, at least an LP certificate would be necessary. A G.3 could potentially work on this under direct supervision from a certificate holder with a GP, G.1, G.2, or DA certificate.

46. Where would you find requirements governing the construction of chimneys?
    a) Applicable UL Canada Standard
    b) Applicable CSA Group Standard
    c) National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings (NECB)
    d) National Building Code of Canada (NBCC)
    Answer: d
    您可以在《加拿大国家建筑规范》（National Building Code of Canada (NBCC)）中找到关于烟囱（chimneys）施工的要求。

47. What Code would you refer to for information on the electrical circuits of gas-fired equipment?
    a) CSA B149.1
    b) Canadian Electrical Code, Part I
    c) CSA B149.3
    d) National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings (NECB)
    Answer: b
    对于燃气设备的电气线路（electrical circuits of gas-fired equipment），应参考《加拿大电气规范第一部分》（Canadian Electrical Code, Part I）。

48. Which regulation describes the legal requirements of employers and suppliers of hazardous materials?
    a) Occupational Health and Safety Act
    b) Occupational Health and Safety Code
    c) WHMIS 2015
    d) Provincial Safety Authority
    Answer: c
    WHMIS 2015（工作场所危险材料信息系统）法规（WHMIS 2015 regulation）描述了雇主和危险材料供应商（employers and suppliers of hazardous materials）的法律要求。

49. Who publishes the standard Installation Requirements for Gas-burning Appliances in Manufactured Homes?
    a) CSA Group
    b) Provincial Safety Authority
    c) UL Canada
    d) Standards Council of Canada (SCC)
    Answer: a
    CSA Group（CSA Group）发布了用于预制房屋（Manufactured Homes）的燃气燃烧器具（Gas-burning Appliances）的标准安装要求。

50. What do the letters "TSSA" stand for?
    a) Technical Safety and Standards Authority
    b) Technical Standards and Safety Association
    c) Technical Standards and Safety Authority
    d) Technical Safety and Standards Association
    Answer: c
    TSSA 代表技术标准与安全管理局（Technical Standards and Safety Authority）。

51. Name the title (including date) of the Code that deals with propane storage and handling that is currently accepted into law in Ontario.
    a) CSA B149.2 Propane Storage and Handling Code
    b) CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code
    c) CSA-B149.3 Code for the Field Approval of Fuel-burning Appliances and Equipment
    Answer: a
    目前被安大略省法律接受的涉及丙烷储存和处理的规范标题是 CSA B149.2 丙烷储存和处理规范（CSA B149.2 Propane Storage and Handling Code）。

52. What legal document is the least specific but contains the most powerful set of rules?
    a) A Regulation
    b) An Act
    c) A Code
    Answer: b
    法律（An Act）是最不具体但最强大的规则集。

53. What regulates Manufacturer's instructions?
    a) The Act
    b) Standards
    c) Regulations
    d) Codes
    Answer: b
    制造商的说明（Manufacturer's instructions）受标准（Standards）的监管。

54. Correctly complete the following sentence:
	Codes provide _________
    a) general principles, duties, and responsibilities, as well as define the administrative powers for monitoring, enforcing, and creating regulations.
    b) specific information on materials or components that you can use and how you are to use and test them.
    c) general requirements and directions on what can be used and how to use it.
    Answer: c
    规范（Codes）提供通用要求和关于何种可以使用以及如何使用的指导。

55. Does TSSA have regulatory authority over the safety of both natural gas and propane?
    a) Yes
    b) No
    Answer: a
    TSSA（Technical Standards and Safety Authority）对天然气和丙烷的安全都拥有监管权力。

56. Are the appliance manufacturer's installation instructions legal documents?
    a) Yes
    b) No
    Answer: a
    器具制造商的安装说明（appliance manufacturer's installation instructions）是法律文件。

57. Is TSSA a part of the government?
    a) Yes
    b) No
    Answer: b
    TSSA（Technical Standards and Safety Authority）不是政府的一部分，而是由安大略省政府指定的私营、独立、非政府、非营利组织。

58. Correctly complete the following sentence:
	_________ allows TSSA to accept and amend codes and standards without a regulatory change.
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Act
    b) Regulation 215/01 Fuel Industry Certificates
    c) Regulation 223/01 Codes and Standards Adopted by Reference
    d) Regulation 211/01 Propane Storage and Handling
    Answer: c
    《223/01 号安大略省法规（代码和标准采纳）》（Regulation 223/01 Codes and Standards Adopted by Reference）允许 TSSA 在不进行监管变更的情况下接受和修订代码和标准。

59. Who does TSSA report to?
    a) Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)
    b) Ministry of Energy (ME)
    c) The Attorney General
    d) Their shareholders
    Answer: a
    TSSA（Technical Standards and Safety Authority）向安大略省政府与消费者服务部（Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)）汇报。

60. Which of the following best describes due diligence?
    a) Knowing and Understanding all of the Regulations before working in the industry.
    b) Knowing who the local TSSA Inspector is and advising him/her of ongoing work.
    c) Actions that are reasonable in the circumstances expected from a reasonable person.
    Answer: c
    尽职调查（due diligence）是指一个人在所处情况下的合理行为，如同一个合理的人所能做的那样。

61. What is the maximum fine that can be charged against a corporate body that is found guilty of obstructing an inspector?
    a) $1,000,000
    b) $100,000
    c) There is no maximum
    Answer: a
    对被判犯有妨碍检查员罪的法人（corporate body）处以的最高罚款是 1,000,000 美元。

62. How can one recognize an inspector?
    a) By their TSSA jacket
    b) By their inspectors' certificate
    c) By their identification badge or card
    Answer: c
    人们可以通过检查员的身份识别徽章或卡片（identification badge or card）来识别他们。

63. Who has the authority to issue an Order banning the use of an unsafe gas appliance model?
    a) An inspector
    b) A regional manager
    c) A director
    d) A service technician
    Answer: c
    主任（A director）有权发布命令，禁止使用不安全的燃气器具型号。

64. Who has the authority to remove a suspected faulty gas valve and take it away for further examination?
    a) A private investigator
    b) An inspector
    c) An engineer
    d) A service technician
    Answer: b
    检查员（An inspector）有权移除疑似有故障的燃气阀门并将其带走进行进一步检查。

65. Name the Ontario Act directly related to safety and standards within the fuels industry.
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Act, 2000
    b) The Energy Act
    c) Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA)
    Answer: a
    与燃料行业安全和标准直接相关的安大略省法案是《2000 年技术标准与安全法》（Technical Standards and Safety Act, 2000）。

66. Can someone, other than a certificate holder, service gas equipment if under the direct supervision of a certificate holder?
    a) Yes, as long as it is inspected before activation
    b) No
    Answer: b
    除持证人外，其他人不得在证书持有人的直接监督下维修燃气设备。

67. Indicate True or False:
	In addition to the gas technician's responsibilities to acquire training prior to conducting work, the gas technician's employer also shares this responsibility.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
    除了燃气技术人员在工作前获取培训的责任外，燃气技术人员的雇主（employer）也承担这一责任。

68. Who has the authority to seal off an appliance?
    a) A technician
    b) An Engineer
    c) An inspector
    Answer: c
    检查员（An inspector）有权封存器具。

69. Who is the designated administrative authority in the province of Ontario?
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA)
    b) The Fuels Safety Branch
    c) Ontario Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)
    Answer: a
    安大略省的指定行政当局是技术标准与安全管理局（Technical Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA)）。

70. Complete the following sentence by selecting the correct term:
	The term _________ can refer to a person's certificate, identification, license or registration.
    a) Documentation
    b) Authorization
    c) Credentials
    d) Permit
    Answer: b
    授权（Authorization）一词可以指个人的证书、身份证明、执照或许可（certificate, identification, license or registration）。

71. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
	_________ of the condition to the distributor who supplies gas to the appliance or work.
    a) Immediately give written notice
    b) Immediately give oral notice
    c) Within 5 business days send a registered letter with return receipt
    d) Ask the user of the appliance to shut off the gas and have them provide details
    Answer: a
    如果证书或 ROT 持有人发现器具或工作处于不被接受的状态但并不构成即时危险，则必须立即以书面形式（written notice）通知供应燃气的经销商。

72. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
	_________ to the user of the appliance or work describing the condition and advising that notice of the condition has been given to the distributor.
    a) Immediately give oral notice
    b) Within 14 calendar days send a registered letter with return receipt
    c) Within 5 business days send a registered letter with return receipt
    d) Immediately give written notice
    Answer: d
    如果证书或 ROT 持有人发现器具或工作处于不被接受的状态但并不构成即时危险，则必须立即以书面形式（written notice）告知用户，描述状况并告知已通知经销商。

73. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
	_________ of the condition to the distributor within 14 days of finding it.
    a) Within 14 days give written notice
    b) Within 7 days send a registered letter with return receipt
    c) Within 5 business days give written notice
    d) Within 1 calendar day send an email with return Delivery Receipt and Return Receipt features enabled
    Answer: a
    如果证书或 ROT 持有人发现器具或工作处于不被接受的状态但并不构成即时危险，则必须在发现后的 14 天内（within 14 days）以书面形式（written notice）通知经销商。

74. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
	_________ containing the information required in clause (b) to the appliance or work.
    a) Shut off the supply of gas and affix a notice
    b) Call the appliance user then affix a notice
    c) Affix a warning label
    d) Affix a notice
    Answer: d
    如果证书或 ROT 持有人发现器具或工作处于不被接受的状态但并不构成即时危险，则必须将包含子句（b）中所述信息的通知（notice）附在器具或工作上。

75. Who is authorized to work on liquid propane systems?
    a) Gas technician 3 (G.3 certificate holder)
    b) Liquid propane fitter (LP certificate holder)
    c) Gas technician 2 (G.2 certificate holder)
    d) Gas piping fitter (GP certificate holder)
    Answer: b
    持有液态丙烷证书（Liquid Propane certificate）的人员（LP certificate holder）被授权操作液态丙烷系统。

76. What is one step a certificate holder does when it appears to have been a CO poisoning incident?
    a) Immediately shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    b) Immediately ask the gas supplier to shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    c) Immediately ask the user of the appliance to contact the gas supplier to shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    d) Immediately call the local fire department of the municipality to shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    Answer: a
    当出现一氧化碳（CO）中毒事件时，证书持有人（certificate holder）应立即关闭（Immediately shut off）供往器具或工作的燃气供应。

77. Select the correct statement for the situation.
    a) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the general supervision of a G.1 certificate holder.
    b) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the direct supervision of a G.2 certificate holder.
    c) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the general supervision of a G.2 certificate holder.
    d) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the direct supervision of a G.1 certificate holder.
    Answer: d
    G.3 证书持有者可以在 G.1 证书持有者的直接监督下安装额定输入功率超过 400,000 Btu/h (117 kW) 的燃气器具。

78. How does one identify an appliance that has been approved?
    a) On the appliance is a recognized certification mark or TSSA Field Approval label
    b) If it is sold in Canada it is considered approved and not mark is required
    c) It has an Energy rating label affixed
    d) Look up on Standard Council of Canada web site for the most current list of appliances approved for sale in Canada
    Answer: a
    您可以通过器具额定铭牌（appliance rating plate）、阀体、软管、制造商说明书等上的认证标志（certification mark）或 TSSA 现场批准标签（TSSA Field Approval label）来识别已批准的器具。

79. What is the certificate that has as its main focus the installation of gas piping and tubing systems?
    a) Gas technician 3 (G.3 certificate)
    b) Gas technician 2 (G.2 certificate)
    c) A gas piping fitter (GP certificate)
    d) Gas technician 1 (G.1 certificate)
    Answer: c
    主要侧重于安装燃气管道和管路系统（gas piping and tubing systems）的证书是燃气管道技工（Gas piping fitter (GP certificate)）证书。

80. Match the following definitions with the correct terms:
    a) Direct supervision:
    b) General supervision:
    a) Supervision by a supervising certificate holder who may or may not be on site but who is readily available to assist a trainee
    b) Supervision by a supervising certificate holder who is on site in close proximity to a trainee and is available to assist and supervise the trainee
    Answer:
    a) Direct supervision: b) Supervision by a supervising certificate holder who is on site in close proximity to a trainee and is available to assist and supervise the trainee
    b) General supervision: a) Supervision by a supervising certificate holder who may or may not be on site but who is readily available to assist a trainee

81. What must be done before an appliance is activated in a building that has just been connected to natural gas for the first time?
    a) A provincial fuels inspector must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    b) The distributor must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    c) The installer's direct supervisor must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    d) The installer's general supervisor must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    Answer: b
    当建筑物首次连接到天然气（natural gas）时，在器具投入使用前，分销商（the distributor）必须首先检查器具的安装情况，并确认安装和使用符合规定。

82. Who can remove a “DO NOT USE” notice that has been affixed to an appliance?
    a) Owner
    b) Distributor
    c) User
    d) Regulator
    e) Certificate holder
    Answer: e
    只有证书持有人（Certificate holder）才能移除已贴在器具上的“请勿使用”通知。

83. Select five organizations authorized to certify gas appliances in Ontario.
    a) Interteck Testing Services
    b) OMNI-Test Laboratories, Inc.
    c) Underwriters' Laboratories of Canada
    d) Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI)
    e) Underwriters' Laboratories Inc.
    f) QAI Laboratories Ltd.
    g) QPS Evaluation Services, Inc
    h) CSA Group Testing and Certification Inc.
    Answer: a, b, c, e, g, h
    在安大略省，TSSA（Technical Standards and Safety Authority）认可了以下六家组织来认证燃气器具：Intertek Testing Services, OMNI-Test Laboratories, Inc., Underwriters' Laboratories of Canada, Underwriters' Laboratories Inc., QPS Evaluation Services, Inc., 和 CSA Group Testing and Certification Inc.。

84. Are the provisions outlined in a CSA B149 Annex mandatory?
    a) Yes
    b) No
    c) Sometimes
    Answer: b
    CSA B149 附录（Annex）中的规定通常不是强制性的。

85. Explain why a "A" appears in the margin of some of the clauses contained in the CSA B149 Codes.
    a) Those clauses are not mandatory
    b) Those clauses are under review
    c) Those clauses are new or significantly different from the previous edition of the subject Code.
    Answer: c
    CSA B149 规范中某些条款旁边的“A”标记表示这些条款是新的或与上一版规范相比有显著差异。

86. What Code requirements apply to an installation where the appliance was installed many years ago?
    a) The requirements that were in effect at the time of the installation.
    b) The most current requirements
    Answer: a
    对于多年前安装的器具，应遵守安装时生效的规范要求。

87. What CSA B149 Code contains requirements for propane appliances in recreational vehicles?
    a) CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code
    b) CSA B149.2 Propane Storage and Handling Code
    c) CSA-B149.3 Code for the Field Approval of Fuel-burning Appliances and Equipment
    Answer: b
    CSA B149.2 丙烷储存和处理规范（CSA B149.2 Propane Storage and Handling Code）包含房车（recreational vehicles）中丙烷器具（propane appliances）的安装要求。

88. Who should be consulted if there appears to be a conflict between governing Acts, Regulations, or Codes?
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA)
    b) Ministry of Labour (MOL)
    c) Ontario Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)
    d) The applicable authority(ies) having jurisdiction
    Answer: d
    当管辖法案、法规或规范之间出现冲突时，应咨询适用的管辖权当局（applicable authority(ies) having jurisdiction）。

89. Match the following definitions with the correct terms:
    Indicates that you must meet all the requirements that a word links:
    Indicates an advisory or optional statement:
    Indicates that you must meet only one of the requirements that a word links:
    Indicates a mandatory requirement:
    Indicates a recommendation or that which is advised but not mandatory:
    a) May
    b) Should
    c) And
    d) Shall
    e) Or
    Answer:
    Indicates that you must meet all the requirements that a word links: c) And
    Indicates an advisory or optional statement: a) May
    Indicates that you must meet only one of the requirements that a word links: e) Or
    Indicates a mandatory requirement: d) Shall
    Indicates a recommendation or that which is advised but not mandatory: b) Should

90. Indicate True or False:
	The CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code is the minimum standard when applied to installations?
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
    CSA B149.1 天然气和丙烷安装规范（CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code）是安装的最低标准。

91. Name the section of the CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code that applies to piping and tubing.
    a) Section 5
    b) Section 7
    c) Section 6
    d) Section 8
    Answer: c
    CSA B149.1 天然气和丙烷安装规范中涉及管道和管路系统的部分是第 6 节（Section 6）。

92. What does Annex H refer to in the CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code?
    a) Purging of piping and tubing systems where a readily accessible burner is not available or where an appliance is not equipped with a continuous pilot
    b) Piping expansion and flexibility
    c) Sizing and capacities of piping and tubing for propane
    d) Vent sizing tables for Category I natural gas and propane appliances
    Answer: d
    在 CSA B149.1 天然气和丙烷安装规范中，附录 H（Annex H）指的是适用于第一类天然气和丙烷器具的通风尺寸表。