6. Which of the following defines a confined space?
    a) Location with only one entry and exit, and where equipment operations or atmospheres may pose hazards to health and safety.
    b) Work area where entry and exit are restricted by location, design or construction, and where equipment operations or atmospheres may pose hazards to health and safety.
    c) Location with no windows, and where equipment operations or atmospheres may pose hazards to health and safety.
    Answer: b
---
7. What are the main atmospheric hazards?
    a) Combustible or explosive gases and vapours, and much or too little light.
    b) Too warm or too cold, too much or too little oxygen, and toxic fumes.
    c) Combustible or explosive gases and vapours, too much or too little oxygen, and toxic fumes.
    Answer: c
___
8. Which of the following is not considered an adequate ventilation system used in the workplace?
    a) Vacuum systems
    b) Portable fans
    c) Exhaust systems
    d) Special ventilating equipment
    Answer: b
___
11. Why must the RPM rating of a grinding wheel match that of the grinder?
    a) The wheel could shatter
    b) The wheel will not work properly
    c) The grinder will not work properly
	Answer: a
___
16. Who must provide workers with equipment, materials, and protective devices that are required by law?
    a) The worker's supervisor
    b) The worker
    c) The employer
	Answer: c
---
17. To whom must a worker report any contravention of any safety act or regulation, or a job-site hazard?
    a) To the employer or supervisor
    b) Ministry of Labour
    c) Local Authority Having Jurisdiction
	Answer: a