## Assignment Questions – Chapter 1
1. What is the main component of natural gas?
    a) Butane
    b) Methane
    c) Propane
    d) Carbon
    Answer: b
---
2. What is the chemical formula for methane?
    a) C3H8
    b) C4H10
    c) CH4
    d) C2H4
    Answer: c
---
3. What is the chemical formula for propane?
    a) C4H10
    b) CH4
    c) C2H4
    d) C3H8
    Answer: d
---
4. What substance is added to natural gas and propane to give them a distinctive odour?
    a) Butane
    b) Sulphur
    c) Mercaptan
    Answer: c
---
5. Define the term specific gravity.
    a) Specific gravity is the comparison between the level of the volume of a gas (or liquid) and the level of an equal volume of air (or water).
    b) Specific gravity is the comparison between the weight of the volume of a gas (or liquid) and the weight of an equal volume of air (or water).
    c) Specific gravity is the comparison between the pressure of the volume of a gas (or liquid) and the pressure of an equal volume of air (or water).
    Answer: b
---
6. What is the specific gravity of natural gas vapour?
    a) 0.55
    b) 0.75
    c) 1.25
    d) 1.52
    Answer: a
---
7. What is the specific gravity of propane vapour?
    a) 0.55
    b) 0.75
    c) 1.25
    d) 1.52
    Answer: d
---
8. What is the ratio of expansion from liquid to gas for natural gas?
    a) 1:1 200
    b) 1:1 500
    c) 1:600
    d) 1:270
    Answer: c
---
9. What is the boiling temperature for propane?
    a) -260°F (-162 °C)
    b) -44°F (-42.2 °C)
    c) +212°F (+100 °C)
    d) +100°F (+37.78 °C)
    Answer: b
---
10. Define the term calorific value.
    a) The energy released when an unknown volume of fuel is burned.
    b) The energy released when a given volume of fuel is burned.
    c) The energy consumed when a given volume of fuel is burned.
---
11. What is the accepted calorific value in Btu/ft³ for natural gas
    a) 1000 Btu/ft³
    b) 1500 Btu/ft3
    c) 2 520 Btu/ft3
    d) 3 600 Btu/ft3
	Answer: a
---
12. What is the limit of flammability for propane?
    a) 4-15%
    b) 5-19%
    c) 2.4-9.5%
    d) 2-75%
	Answer: c
---
13. What is 85%-95% of natural gas is made up of?
    a) Ethane
    b) Methane
    c) Nitrogen
    d) Propane
	Answer: b
---
14. What is the specific gravity of liquid propane?
    a) 0.58
    b) 1.54
    c) 7.6
    d) 0.51
	Answer: a
---
15. Correctly complete the following statement with the appropriate word provided:
	At atmospheric pressure, propane gas expands at the ratio of _________ when changing from a liquid to a gas.
    a) 1:270
    b) 1:300
    c) 1:600
    d) 1:670
    Answer: a
---
16. What is the flame speed (inches/s) of natural gas?
    a) 11
    b) 10
    c) 12
    d) 9
	Answer: c
---
17. What is the limit of flammability (%) for propane?
    a) 4-15
    b) 2.4-9.5
    c) 3.5-8.5
    d) 3-12
	Answer: b
---
18. What is the maximum flame temperature in °F (and °C) for propane and natural gas?
    a) 2 600°F (1 430 °C)
    b) 1600°F (870 °C)
    c) 3 600°F (1 980 °C)
    d) 4 600°F (2 540 °C)
	Answer: c
---
19. Correctly complete the following statement with the appropriate word provided:
_________ is the temperature at which an air-gas mixture initiates and supports combustion. It varies according to the fuel gas used.
    a) Flame temperature
    b) Limits of flammability
    c) Ignition temperature
    Answer: c
---
20. Correctly complete the following statement with the appropriate word provided:
_________ are the upper and lower ranges of gas in the air-gas mixture that supports combustion.
    a) Limits of flammability
    b) Flammability range
    c) Flame temperatures
    Answer: a
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 2
1. What is the term used for the chemical process in which the rapid oxidation of fuel results in the production of heat?
    a) Ignition
    b) Explosion
    c) Combustion
    Answer: c
---
2. Approximately what percentage of air is oxygen?
    a) 20%
    b) 25%
    c) 79%
    d) 1.2%
    Answer: a
---
3. What are the approximate ignition temperatures in °F (and °C) for propane?
    a) 1020°F (495 °C)
    b) 1300°F (700 °C)
    c) 1000°F (538 °C)
    d) 600°F (315 °C)
    Answer: c
---
4. What are the approximate ignition temperatures in °F (and °C) for natural gas?
    a) 1000°F (538 °C)
    b) 600°F (315 °C)
    c) 1300°F (700 °C)
    d) 1020°F (495 °C)
    Answer: c
---
5. What are the products of combustion for a hydrocarbon fuel?
    a) CO4, H2O, and heat
    b) CO2, H2O2, and heat
    c) CO2, H2O, and heat
    d) 2CO2, H2O, and heat
    Answer: c
---
6. State the formula for perfect combustion for natural gas.
    a) CH4 + 2O2 + 8N2 > CO2 + 2H2O + 8N2 + Heat
    b) CH4 + 2O2 + 8N2 > 2CO + 2H2O + 8N2 + Heat
    c) CH4 + 2O2 + 8N2 > CO2 + 4H2O + 8N2 + Heat
    Answer: a
---
7. What is added to the combustion process to ensure complete combustion?
    a) Primary air
    b) Excess air
    c) Ventilation air
    d) Combustion air
---
8. Name two products of incomplete combustion.
    a) Water Vapour and Carbon dioxide
    b) Nitrogen and Carbon
    c) Carbon monoxide and aldehydes
    d) Nitrogen and water vapour
    Answer: c
---
9. How are the three divisions of air supply categorized?
    a) Combustion air, pressurized air, dilution air
    b) Combustion air, excess air, primary air
    c) Combustion air, excess air, dilution air
---
10. What is the term used to describe the air that is mixed with fuel gas before the point of ignition?
    a) Primary air
    b) Excess air
    c) Dilution air
	Answer: a
---
11. What is the purpose of dilution air?
    a) To remove the hot vent gases and to control the draft influence on the combustion chamber
    b) To increase the hot vent gases and to control the draft influence on the combustion chamber
    c) To cool the hot vent gases and to control the draft influence on the combustion chamber
	Answer: c
---
12. What is the air-to-gas ratio that applies to all fuel gases?
    a) Each (1 000 Btu of fuel input) x 10 ft³ air = perfect combustion
    b) Each (1 000 Btu of fuel input) x 10 ft³ air = complete combustion
    c) Each (1 000 Btu of fuel input) x 10 ft³ air = perfect ignition
	Answer: b
---
13. What is the normal percentage of combustion air to excess air requirements for an atmospheric burner?
    a) The volume of excess air equal to 10% of combustion air requirements is considered acceptable.
    b) The volume of excess air equal to 50% of combustion air requirements is considered acceptable.
    c) The volume of excess air equal to 100% of combustion air requirements is considered acceptable.
	Answer: b
---
14. What are the total air volume supply requirements for an atmospheric burner?
    a) 10 ft³ of air for each 1 000 Btu of input
    b) 50 ft³ of air for each 1 000 Btu of input
    c) 30 ft³ of air for each 1 000 Btu of input
    d) 15 ft³ of air for each 1 000 Btu of input
	Answer: c
---
15. What are the three-colour zones of a stable Bunsen flame?
    a) Center cone, top cone, outer mantle
    b) Bottom cone, top cone, outer mantle
    c) Inner cone, outer cone, inner mantle
    d) Inner cone, outer cone, outer mantle
	Answer: d
---
16. Which of the following is not one of the Combustion Triangle elements?
    a) Carbon dioxide
    b) Fuel
    c) Heat
    d) Oxygen
	Answer: a
---
17. Correctly complete the following sentence with the appropriate chemical designation provided:
	_________ is the chemical designation for natural gas. Its ignition temperature is 1200°F (700 °C).
    a) CH2
    b) CH3
    c) CH4
    d) CH5
    Answer: c
---
18. Correctly complete the following sentence with the appropriate temperature provided:
	An ignition temperature of _________ °F (495 °C) and a chemical designation of C3H8 identifies propane.
    a) 1030°F
    b) 1020°F
    c) 1050°F
    d) 1040°F
    Answer: b
---
19. Correctly complete the following sentence with the appropriate term provided:
	_________ is subdivided into the two classifications of primary air and secondary air.
    a) Combustion air
    b) Excess air
    c) Ventilation air
    d) Total air
    Answer: a
---
20. What type of air describes the volume of air required to allow the appliance to operate safely and efficiently?
    a) Combustion air
    b) Total air
    c) Excess air
    d) Ventilation air
	Answer: b
---
21. Correctly complete the following sentence with the appropriate percentage provided:
	The volume of excess air required for the efficient operation of atmospheric burner-fired equipment is equal to _________ of the combustion air requirement or 5 ft³ for each 1 000 Btu.
    a) 25%
    b) 75%
    c) 100%
    d) 50%
    Answer: d
---
22. Indicate True or False:
	The volume of dilution air required for appliances equipped with a draft control device should be equal to the total of the combustion and excess air supplied the burner or 15 ft³ for each 1 000 Btu.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
---
23. Match each Definition to one of the following categories of air.
    Supplied to ensure that complete combustion has occurred:
    Supplied from around the flames:
    Supplied to the combustion chamber in excess of the air required for perfect combustion:
    Supplied to cool the hot vent gases:
    Provides a source of air to the draft control device:
    Combustion, excess, and dilution air requirements added together:
    Supplied to mix with fuel gas before ignition:
	a) Dilution air
	b) Excess air
	c) Secondary air
	d) Excess air
	e) Dilution air
	f) Primary air
	g) Total air
---
24. Correctly complete the following sentence with the appropriate temperature provided:
	The combustion process must maintain a temperature of approximately _________ °FA (700 °C) for natural gas.
    a) 1000°F
    b) 1300°F
    c) 1200°F
    d) 1100°F
    Answer: b
---
25. Correctly complete the following sentence with the appropriate number provided:
	100 000 Btu/h requires _________ ft³ combustion air.
    a) 1000 ft3
    b) 10 ft³
    c) 100 ft³
    d) 10 000 ft3
    Answer: a
---
26. Indicate True or False:
	255 000 Btu/h requires 2 550 ft³ combustion air.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 3
1. Which of the following is a type of combustible gas indicator?
    a) Handheld type
    b) Pump type
    c) Filament type
    d) Wand type
    Answer: c
---
2. How are combustible gas indicators calibrated?
    a) By applying a known concentration of gas to the instrument, then checking the response
    b) By applying an unknown concentration of gas to the instrument, then checking the response
    c) By checking the response of the instrument at a test point
    Answer: a
---
3. What must be the first concern when responding to a gas leak call?
    a) Response time
    b) Type of odour present
    c) Safety (public and personal)
    Answer: c
---
4. Where is a good place to test when checking combustible gas if the natural gas appliances is located in the basement?
    a) In the basement stairwell
    b) At the front door of the house
    c) At the vent termination of an appliance
    Answer: a
---
5. Indicate True or False:
	One of the methods to ventilate combustible gas is to open the doors and windows.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
---
6. Which of the following is not a location that should be checked when testing for combustible gases?
    a) All conduit entry points
    b) Below grade cracks in basement walls
    c) Around windows and doors
    d) Floor drains
    Answer: c
---
7. How quickly will death occur if a person is exposed to a concentration of 800 ppm of CO?
    a) 30 minutes
    b) 2 to 3 hours
    c) 1 hour
    d) 8 hours
    Answer: b
---
8. What must be done if a crack is found in a furnace heat exchanger?
    a) The furnace heat exchanger must be welded
    b) The furnace heat exchanger be patched with furnace cement
    c) Nothing, the furnace is safe to use
    d) The heat exchanger or entire furnace must be replaced
    Answer: d
---
9. What can CO/Air concentration of 1 600 ppm for 20 mins cause?
	Note: These toxic symptoms choices are general to the public and can vary significantly based on age, sex, weight, and state of health.
    a) Dizziness, nausea, convulsions
    b) Headache, dizziness, nausea
    c) Death
    d) Unconsciousness
    Answer: b
---
10. What can CO/Air concentration of 800 ppm for over 2 hrs cause?
	Note: These toxic symptoms choices are general to the public and can vary significantly based on age, sex, weight, and state of health.
    a) Slight headache, tiredness, dizziness, nausea
    b) Death
    c) Unconsciousness
    d) Dizziness, nausea, convulsions
    Answer: b
---
11. What can CO/Air concentration of 800 ppm for 2 hrs cause?
	Note: These toxic symptoms choices are general to the public and can vary significantly based on age, sex, weight, and state of health.
    a) Unconsciousness
    b) Frontal headache
    c) Dizziness, nausea, convulsions
    d) Headache, dizziness, nausea
---
12. What can CO/Air concentration of 800 ppm for 45 mins?
	Note: These toxic symptoms choices are general to the public and can vary significantly based on age, sex, weight, and state of health.
    a) Slight headache, tiredness, dizziness, nausea
    b) Severe headache, dizziness, nausea
    c) Dizziness, nausea
    d) Dizziness, nausea, convulsions
    Answer: d
---
13. Indicate True or False:
	Down-draft spillage of a vent can be caused by the draw of an exhaust fan elsewhere in the building.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
---
14. Indicate True or False:
	The operation of a wood-burning fireplace on the main floor of a home can cause a chimney to which a basement furnace is venting to reverse its venting action.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: a
---
15. Indicate True or False:
	Because a dryer is exhausted, not vented, its operation can't affect the proper venting of the gas appliances installed in an R2000 home.
    a) True
    b) False
    Answer: b
---