## Assignment Questions - Chapter 1
1. Match the following definitions with the correct terms:
    Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction:
    A primarily vertical shaft that encloses at least one flue for conducting flue gases outdoors:
    An appliance constructed so that all the combustion air is supplied directly from, and the products of combustion are vented directly to, the outdoors by independent enclosed passageways connected directly to the appliance:
    A device, either adjustable or non-adjustable, for controlling and maintaining, within acceptable limits, a uniform outlet pressure:
    a) Direct-vent appliance
    b) Pressure regulator
    c) Approved
    d) Chimney
---
2. Indicate True or False:
A venting system removes flue gases to the outdoors by means of a chimney, vent connector vent, or a natural or mechanical exhaust system,
    a) True
    b) False
---
3. Which of the following describes a continuous pilot?
    a) A pilot that is automatically lighted each time there is a call for heat, and that is cut off automatically at the end of the trial-for-ignition period of the main burner
    b) A pilot that burns without turndown throughout the entire time the burner is in service, whether the main burner is firing or not.
    c) A pilot that is automatically lighted each time there is a call for heat, and that burns during the entire period that the main burner is firing.
---
4. Indicate True or False:
An enclosed structure is the entire building in which an appliance is installed.
    a) False
    b) True
---
5. What type of burner is not equipped with a mechanical device for supplying combustion air?
    a) Forced-draft burner
    b) Fan-assisted burner
    c) Natural-draft burner
---
6. Match the maximum gas pressures (in psig) permitted inside the following buildings.
    One- and two-family dwellings and row housing:
    Residential (other than one- and two-family dwellings and row housing):
    Hotels and motels:
    Care or detention and assembly buildings:
    Commercial buildings:
    Industrial buildings:
    Central-heating plants:
    a) 20 psig (140 kPa)
    b) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    c) 66 psig (450 kPa) for natural gas and 20 psig (140 kPa) for propane
    d) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
    e) 66 psig (450 kPa) for natural gas and 20 psig (140 kPa) for propane
    f) 2 psi (14kPa)
    g) 5 psig (35 kPa) or 20 psig (140 kPa)
---
7. Where can you determine the volume of gas to be used for sizing pipe systems to an appliance?
    a) The appliance rating plate or the appliance manufacturer
    b) The back of the Codebook
    c) In the Regulation
---
8. According to CSA B149.1 Table 6.1, what is the maximum allowable pressure drop when a natural gas piping and tubing system supply pressure is less than 7 inches w.c.?
    a) 1 inch w.c. (0.250 kPa)
    b) There is no maximum allowable pressure drop
    c) 0.5 inches w.c. (0.125 kPa)
---
9. Can a gas pipe be supported by another gas pipe?
    a) Yes, if it is a smaller diameter
    b) Yes, if it is a larger diameter
    c) No
---
10. Match the correct depth of cover required on an underground gas line for the following installations?
    a) Residential:
    b) Commercial driveway:
    c) Parking lot:
    a) 24 inches (610 mm)
    b) 15 inches (400 mm)
    c) 24 inches (610 mm)
---
11. Can gas piping be passed under a building?
    a) Yes, if it is at least 24 inches (610 mm) below the footings
    b) Yes, if it is at least 15 inches (400 mm) below the footings
    c) No
---
12. When piping is extended from one building to another, where must the shut-off valves be located?
    a) At the point of exit of the first building and the point of entry of the second building
    b) At the appliance
    c) At the meter
---
13. What is the minimum clearance required for each side of a commercial clothes dryer and the combustible material?
    a) 12 inches (300 mm)
    b) 18 inches (450 mm)
    c) 48 inches (1200 mm)
    d) 24 inches (610 mm)
---
14. Match the minimum clearance required for each side of a central furnace and the combustible material?
    Above:
    Front:
    Back and sides:
    a) 6 inches (150 mm)
    b) 1 inch (25 mm)
    c) 24 inches (600 mm)
---
15. What type of room heater is allowed in a bathroom?
    a) Direct-vent type
    b) Ventless
    c) Electric only
---
16. Match the minimum clearance is required for each side of a swimming pool heater and the combustible material?
    Vertical:
	Sides and rear:
    Front:
    a) 18 inches (450mm)
    b) 48 inches (1 200 mm)
    c) 18 inches (450 mm)
---
17. How far from a property line must a natural gas cylinder be stored if the aggregate capacity of the expanded gas exceeds 18 000 cubic feet (500 000 L)?
    a) 100 ft (15 m)
    b) 75 ft (11.25 m)
    c) 50 ft (7.5 m)
---
18. May a vehicle that is being refuelled with natural gas have its engine running?
    a) Yes, provided it is 25 feet from a building
    b) No
---
19. Who may transfer propane from one container to another?
    a) Anyone as long as they stay in attendance at the transfer point
    b) The holder of a certificate recognized by the authority having jurisdiction
    c) A person trained by the employer on the operation of the equipment
---
20. What is the maximum permitted filling density of a propane cylinder?
    a) 65%
    b) 100%
    c) 80%
    d) 90%
---
21. In which tables of the Propane storage and handling code can the maximum filling density of a propane tank be found?
    a) Tables C2 and C3
    b) Tables 7.3 and 7.4
    c) Tables 7.1 and 7.2
---
22. May a building that has a propane vaporizer be permitted to have a drain to a sewer or a sump pit?
    a) Yes, provided it has a removable cap
    b) No
---
23. Propane-burning appliances installed in a recreational vehicle must comply with which standard?
    a) CSA Z240.4
    b) CSA B149.2
    c) CSA B149.3
---
24. What are the installer's responsibilities towards the user before he or she leaves an installation?
    a) Shall instruct the user in the safe and correct operation of all appliances or equipment installed
    b) Shall advise the user the instructions have been left with the appliance
    c) Shall instruct the user to read the manufacturers literature while the installation is being completed
---
25. What Standard must meter and service regulator installations be in accordance with?
    a) CSA Z662
    b) CSA B149.2
    c) CSA B149.1
    d) CSA B149.3
---
26. Suppose an appliance requires a clearance of 24 inches. By how much can the clearance above the appliance be reduced if the surrounding surface is covered with 28 gauge sheet metal, spaced out 1 inch?
    a) 9 inches
    b) 6 inches
    c) 12 inches
    d) 3 inches
---
27. Suppose an appliance requires a clearance of 24 inches. By how much can the clearance at the sides and rear of the appliance be reduced if the surrounding surface is covered with 28 gauge sheet metal, spaced out 1 inch?
    a) 12 inches
    b) 6 inches
    c) 9 inches
    d) 3 inches
---
28. In general, what is the minimum service clearance surrounding an appliance?
    a) 18 inches
    b) 24 inches
    c) 12 inches
    d) 36 inches
---
29. Indicate True or False:
A furnace or water heater needs to be certified specifically for use within a mobile home if the home has been placed in a permanent location.
    a) True
    b) False
---
30. Who is responsible for inspecting and determining whether a used appliance is suitable for continued use?
    a) The installer
    b) The homeowner
    c) The manufacturer
    d) The fuel supplier
---
31. If there is a conflict between the manufacturer's certified installation instructions and the Codebook, which requirements are to be followed?
    a) The Code
    b) The manufacturer's instructions
    c) Either requirement can be followed
---
32. What are the minimum dimensions of an access opening to a space containing a gas appliance?
    a) 24 x 30 in (610 × 760 mm)
    b) 18 x 18 in (450 × 450 mm)
    c) 30 x 30 in (760 × 760 mm)
    d) 24 x 24 in (610 × 610 mm)
---
33. What is the minimum distance an appliance burner may be located from the floor of a repair garage?
    a) 4.5 ft (1 400 mm)
    b) 18 inches (450mm)
    c) 36 inches (900 mm)
    d) 24 inches (610 mm)
---
34. What must be done with a defective heat exchanger of a furnace?
    a) It shall be replaced
    b) It should be patched
    c) It should be welded
---
35. Indicate True or False:
if in compliance with procedures acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction, a defective heat exchanger of a commercial or industrial appliance can be repaired?
    a) True
    b) False
---
36. What are the controls necessary for two or more appliances with self-energizing pilots?
    a) Each installed separately with separate thermostats
    b) Installed with one thermostat to control all of the appliances
---
37. Suppose an appliance rating plate specifies a minimum clearance of 36 inches. What clearance can be used if the surrounding area is covered with 1/4 inch insulating millboard, spaced at 1 inch?
    a) Above: 6 inches (150mm), sides and rear: 18 inches (450mm)
    b) Above: 9 inches (225 mm), sides and rear: 9 inches (225mm)
    c) Above: 6 inches (150mm), sides and rear: 12 inches (300mm)
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 2
1. Is a gas technician/fitter permitted to replace electrical components that are directly related to the operation of a gas appliance?
---
For questions 2-8, name the certificates, licenses, or qualifications required to undertake the following activities:
2) Service a process boiler having an input rate of 800 000 Btu/h (234 kW).
Supervised:
Unsupervised:

---
3. Cleaning a domestic gas furnace.
Supervised
Unsupervised:

---
4. Install, test, reactivate, or remove gas piping or tubing downstream of a natural gas meter or propane vapor service valve.
Supervised:
Unsupervised:

---
5. Disconnect and reconnect 5 feet (1.5m) (or less) of water piping, measured horizontally, in order to exchange or install an appliance.
Supervised:
Unsupervised:

---
6. Install a 350 000 Btu/h (102 kW) gas water heater in a commercial building.
Supervised:
Unsupervised:

---
7. Install an unvented residential gas appliance of 100 000 Btu/h (29 kW).
Supervised:
Unsupervised:

---
8. Service or install liquid propane piping or tubing systems and components.
Supervised:
Unsupervised:

---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 3
1. Where would you find requirements governing the construction of chimneys?
    a) Applicable UL Canada Standard
    b) Applicable CSA Group Standard
    c) National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings (NECB)
    d) National Building Code of Canada (NBCC)
---
2. What Code would you refer to for information on the electrical circuits of gas-fired equipment?
    a) CSA B149.1
    b) Canadian Electrical Code, Part I
    c) CSA B149.3
    d) National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings (NECB)
---
3. Which regulation describes the legal requirements of employers and suppliers of hazardous materials?
    a) Occupational Health and Safety Act
    b) Occupational Health and Safety Code
    c) WHMIS 2015
    d) Provincial Safety Authority
---
4. Who publishes the standard Installation Requirements for Gas-burning Appliances in Manufactured Homes?
    a) CSA Group
    b) Provincial Safety Authority
    c) UL Canada
    d) Standards Council of Canada (SCC)
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 4
1. What do the letters "TSSA" stand for?
    a) Technical Safety and Standards Authority
    b) Technical Standards and Safety Association
    c) Technical Standards and Safety Authority
    d) Technical Safety and Standards Association
---
2. Name the title (including date) of the Code that deals with propane storage and handling that is currently accepted into law in Ontario.
    a) CSA B149.2 Propane Storage and Handling Code
    b) CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code
    c) CSA-B149.3 Code for the Field Approval of Fuel-burning Appliances and Equipment
---
3. What legal document is the least specific but contains the most powerful set of rules?
    a) A Regulation
    b) An Act
    c) A Code
---
4. What regulates Manufacturer's instructions?
    a) The Act
    b) Standards
    c) Regulations
    d) Codes
---
5. Correctly complete the following sentence:
Codes provide _________
    a) general principles, duties, and responsibilities, as well as define the administrative powers for monitoring, enforcing, and creating regulations.
    b) specific information on materials or components that you can use and how you are to use and test them.
    c) general requirements and directions on what can be used and how to use it.
---
6. Does TSSA have regulatory authority over the safety of both natural gas and propane?
    a) Yes
    b) No
---
7. Are the appliance manufacturer's installation instructions legal documents?
    a) Yes
    b) No
---
8. Is TSSA a part of the government?
    a) Yes
    b) No
---
9. Correctly complete the following sentence:
_________ allows TSSA to accept and amend codes and standards without a regulatory change.
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Act
    b) Regulation 215/01 Fuel Industry Certificates
    c) Regulation 223/01 Codes and Standards Adopted by Reference
    d) Regulation 211/01 Propane Storage and Handling
---
10. Who does TSSA report to?
    a) Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)
    b) Ministry of Energy (ME)
    c) The Attorney General
    d) Their shareholders
---
11. Which of the following best describes due diligence?
    a) Knowing and Understanding all of the Regulations before working in the industry.
    b) Knowing who the local TSSA Inspector is and advising him/her of ongoing work.
    c) Actions that are reasonable in the circumstances expected from a reasonable person.
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 5
1. What is the maximum fine that can be charged against a corporate body that is found guilty of obstructing an inspector?
    a) $1,000,000
    b) $100,000
    c) There is no maximum
---
2. How can one recognize an inspector?
    a) By their TSSA jacket
    b) By their inspectors' certificate
    c) By their identification badge or card
---
3. Who has the authority to issue an Order banning the use of an unsafe gas appliance model?
    a) An inspector
    b) A regional manager
    c) A director
    d) A service technician
---
4. Who has the authority to remove a suspected faulty gas valve and take it away for further examination?
    a) A private investigator
    b) An inspector
    c) An engineer
    d) A service technician
---
5. Name the Ontario Act directly related to safety and standards within the fuels industry.
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Act, 2000
    b) The Energy Act
    c) Occupational Health and Safety Act (OHSA)
---
6. Can someone, other than a certificate holder, service gas equipment if under the direct supervision of a certificate holder?
    a) Yes, as long as it is inspected before activation
    b) No
---
7. Indicate True or False:
In addition to the gas technician's responsibilities to acquire training prior to conducting work, the gas technician's employer also shares this responsibility.
    a) True
    b) False
---
8. Who has the authority to seal off an appliance?
    a) A technician
    b) An Engineer
    c) An inspector
---
9. Who is the designated administrative authority in the province of Ontario?
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA)
    b) The Fuels Safety Branch
    c) Ontario Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)
---
10. Complete the following sentence by selecting the correct term:
The term _________ can refer to a person's certificate, identification, license or registration.
    a) Documentation
    b) Authorization
    c) Credentials
    d) Permit
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 6
1. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
_________ of the condition to the distributor who supplies gas to the appliance or work.
    a) Immediately give written notice
    b) Immediately give oral notice
    c) Within 5 business days send a registered letter with return receipt
    d) Ask the user of the appliance to shut off the gas and have them provide details
---
2. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
_________ to the user of the appliance or work describing the condition and advising that notice of the condition has been given to the distributor.
    a) Immediately give oral notice
    b) Within 14 calendar days send a registered letter with return receipt
    c) Within 5 business days send a registered letter with return receipt
    d) Immediately give written notice
---
3. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
_________ of the condition to the distributor within 14 days of finding it.
    a) Within 14 days give written notice
    b) Within 7 days send a registered letter with return receipt
    c) Within 5 business days give written notice
    d) Within 1 calendar day send an email with return Delivery Receipt and Return Receipt features enabled
---
4. What is one correct action that a holder of a certificate or ROT must take if he or she finds that an appliance is in an unacceptable condition but does not constitute an immediate hazard?
_________ containing the information required in clause (b) to the appliance or work.
    a) Shut off the supply of gas and affix a notice
    b) Call the appliance user then affix a notice
    c) Affix a warning label
    d) Affix a notice
---
5. Who is authorized to work on liquid propane systems?
    a) Gas technician 3 (G.3 certificate holder)
    b) Liquid propane fitter (LP certificate holder)
    c) Gas technician 2 (G.2 certificate holder)
    d) Gas piping fitter (GP certificate holder)
---
6. What is one step a certificate holder does when it appears that there has been a CO poisoning incident?
    a) Immediately shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    b) Immediately ask the gas supplier to shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    c) Immediately ask the user of the appliance to contact the gas supplier to shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
    d) Immediately call the local fire department of the municipality to shut off the supply of gas to the appliance or work
---
7. Select the correct statement for the situation.
    a) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the general supervision of a G.1 certificate holder.
    b) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the direct supervision of a G.2 certificate holder.
    c) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the general supervision of a G.2 certificate holder.
    d) A G.3 certificate holder can install a gas appliance with an input rate in excess of 400 000 Btuh (117 kW) while under the direct supervision of a G.1 certificate holder.
---
8. How does one identify an appliance that has been approved?
    a) On the appliance is a recognized certification mark or TSSA Field Approval label
    b) If it is sold in Canada it is considered approved and not mark is required
    c) It has an Energy rating label affixed
    d) Look up on Standard Council of Canada web site for the most current list of appliances approved for sale in Canada
---
9. What is the certificate that has as its main focus the installation of gas piping and tubing systems?
    a) Gas technician 3 (G.3 certificate)
    b) Gas technician 2 (G.2 certificate)
    c) A gas piping fitter (GP certificate)
    d) Gas technician 1 (G.1 certificate)
---
10. Match the term to its definition.
    a) Direct supervision:
    b) General supervision:
    a) Supervision by a supervising certificate holder who may or may not be on site but who is readily available to assist a trainee
    b) Supervision by a supervising certificate holder who is on site in close proximity to a trainee and is available to assist and supervise the trainee
---
11. What must be done before an appliance is activated in a building that has just been connected to natural gas for the first time?
    a) A provincial fuels inspector must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    b) The distributor must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    c) The installer's direct supervisor must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
    d) The installer's general supervisor must first examine the installation of the appliance and be satisfied that the installation and use of the appliance are in compliance with the Regulation.
---
12. Who can remove a “DO NOT USE” notice that has been affixed to an appliance?
    a) Owner
    b) Distributor
    c) User
    d) Regulator
    e) Certificate holder
---
13. Select five organizations authorized to certify gas appliances in Ontario.
    a) Interteck Testing Services
    b) OMNI-Test Laboratories, Inc.
    c) Underwriters' Laboratories of Canada
    d) Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI)
    e) Underwriters' Laboratories Inc.
    f) QAI Laboratories Ltd.
    g) QPS Evaluation Services, Inc
    h) CSA Group Testing and Certification Inc.
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 7
1. Are the provisions outlined in a CSA B149 Annex mandatory?
    a) Yes
    b) No
    c) Sometimes
---
2. Explain why a "A" appears in the margin of some of the clauses contained in the CSA B149 Codes.
    a) Those clauses are not mandatory
    b) Those clauses are under review
    c) Those clauses are new or significantly different from the previous edition of the subject Code.
---
3. What Code requirements apply to an installation where the appliance was installed many years ago?
    a) The requirements that were in effect at the time of the installation.
    b) The most current requirements
---
4. What CSA B149 Code contains requirements for propane appliances in recreational vehicles?
    a) CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code
    b) CSA B149.2 Propane Storage and Handling Code
    c) CSA-B149.3 Code for the Field Approval of Fuel-burning Appliances and Equipment
---
5. Who should be consulted if there appears to be a conflict between governing Acts, Regulations, or Codes?
    a) Technical Standards and Safety Authority (TSSA)
    b) Ministry of Labour (MOL)
    c) Ontario Ministry of Government and Consumer Services (MGCS)
    d) The applicable authority(ies) having jurisdiction
---
6. Match the following definitions with the correct terms:
    Indicates that you must meet all the requirements that a word links:
    Indicates an advisory or optional statement:
    Indicates that you must meet only one of the requirements that a word links:
    Indicates a mandatory requirement:
    Indicates a recommendation or that which is advised but not mandatory:
    a) May
    b) Should
    c) And
    d) Shall
    e) Or
---
7. Indicate True or False:
The CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code is the minimum standard when applied to installations?
    a) True
    b) False
---
8. Name the section of the CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code that applies to piping and tubing.
    a) Section 5
    b) Section 7
    c) Section 6
    d) Section 8
---
9. What does Annex H refer to in the CSA B149.1 Natural Gas and Propane Installation Code?
    a) Purging of piping and tubing systems where a readily accessible burner is not available or where an appliance is not equipped with a continuous pilot
    b) Piping expansion and flexibility
    c) Sizing and capacities of piping and tubing for propane
    d) Vent sizing tables for Category I natural gas and propane appliances