## Assignment Questions – Chapter 1
1. Which of the following methods is used to project a professional attitude?
    a) Drive a clean vehicle
    b) Give easily understood explanations of problems
    c) Always carry a toolbox
    Answer: b
---
2. Why is a neat, well-groomed appearance important when dealing with a customer?
    a) It indicates to a customer that your work will reflect the same care and consideration
    b) It indicates to a customer that you are a supervisor
    c) It represents the values of the company to the customer
    Answer: a
---
3. What should be done before using water, power etc., in a customer's home?
    a) Ask permission
    b) Check the source for any safety issues and report
    c) Advise the customer you cannot complete the work unless you have access to the utilities
    Answer: a
---
4. What should be done after hearing the customer's explanation of a problem or request?
    a) Tell the customer you are the expert and you will figure it out for yourself.
    b) Advise the customer they should learn how to operate the equipment properly.
    c) Clarify by recapping or paraphrasing the customer's explanation to assure them that they have communicated it accurately to you
    Answer: c
---
5. Why is asking the right question in the right way important when dealing with customer concerns?
    a) It can shorten the time it takes to analyze the problem and will save them money.
    b) It can not only help to isolate the problem, but it can also make the customer feel he/she is part of the process
    c) It can prevent you from having to go back to the vehicle to get extra tools.
    Answer: c
---
6. After solving a service problem, what should be done to allay further concerns of the customer?
    a) The customer should be advised how the last person who worked on the system was incompetent.
    b) The customer should be advised to read the instructions that came with the appliance and try and fix it first before calling.
    c) A brief explanation of the problem and its solution should be given to the customer.
    Answer: c
---
7. Indicate for each Action the most appropriate Customer Service Trait.
    Workplace behavior (hint: there are 5 actions)
    Communication (hint: there are 5 actions)
    Attitude (hint: there are 2 actions)
    Appearance (hint: there are 2 actions)
    Action | Customer Service Trait
    a) Establishing eye contact when talking notes: |
    b) Eating or smoking on the customer's premises: |
    c) Being sympathetic to the customer's problem: |
    d) Always wearing clothing that is clean, and that fits well: |
    e) Speaking (talking) down to the customer: |
    f) Asking the customer to describe the problem as he/she understands it: |
    g) Asking for permission to move furniture or other items in the way: |
    h) Providing easily understood explanations of problems: |
    i) Having clean and neatly combed hair; being well groomed: |
    j) Warning the customer if you are going to cause undue noise: |
    k) Acknowledging the customer's concerns: |
    l) Cleaning up waste and mess created by your work: |
    m) Calming the customer's concerns and fears with a simple explanation: |
    n) Criticizing the customer's home and/or belongings: |
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 2
1. What is a good way to ensure your footwear is clean and dry when entering a customer's home?
    a) Bring an extra pair of shoes for inside
    b) Wear overshoes
    c) Wipe your shoes on the customers doormat
    Answer: b
---
2. Where should you park your service vehicle when arriving at a customer's location?
    a) On the street
    b) Customers driveway
    c) Both the street and driveway are acceptable
    Answer: a
---
3. What electrical appliance(s) should never be unplugged in order to obtain power?
    a) Television
    b) Washer or Dryer
    c) Any appliance connected with an extension cord
    d) Refrigerator or freezer
    Answer: d
---
4. What should be done before moving an appliance into a customer's home?
    a) Take measurements to ensure it can fit in the space provided.
    b) Ask the customer to leave and they will see the appliance after it is installed.
    c) Ask the customer if they know if the appliance will fit in the space provided.
    Answer: a
---
5. What should be done if a customer's property is damaged?
    a) Assess the damage and touch up any small marks before the customer has an opportunity to see it.
    b) Immediately report all damage to the customer and your supervisor.
    c) Advise the customer the damage was there before you started.
    Answer: b
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 3
1. Match customer expectations with the description of how to meet their expectations.
    Use effective listening techniques to assure the customer of your attentiveness to the problem: 
    Do not be arrogant or condescending in your words or actions: 
    Respond to the customer in a confident, serious, professional manner: 
    Act as quickly as circumstances permit to solve the customer's problem: 
    a) To be listened to
    b) To have their problem taken seriously
    c) To be treated with respect
    d) To have their problem solved immediately
---
2. What should be done after a customer's problem has been solved and the work is complete?
    a) Nothing
    b) Produce an invoice for the work and demand payment
    c) Perform a follow-up to ensure the customer is still satisfied
    Answer: c
---
3. Which of the following is a better choice of words than, "I know how you feel," when responding to a customer's complaint?
    a) "You are overreacting"
    b) "I can understand why you feel that way"
    c) "It's not that bad"
    Answer: b
---
4. Which is the better choice of words than, “You are not making any sense” when responding to a customer's concerns?
    a) "That is definitely wrong"
    b) "Maybe I am not understanding you correctly"
    c) "You're way off base"
    d) "Did you really say...."
    Answer: b
---
5. What is the best policy regarding arguments with a customer?
    a) Listen, but make sure the customer agrees with you by the end
    b) Advise the customer you are the expert
    c) Avoiding arguments is the best policy
    Answer: c
---
6. Which of the following non-verbal communication techniques can be used to diffuse a customer's anger?
    a) Facial expression (calm, sincere, concerned, interested expression)
    b) Turn your back to the customer
    c) Say nothing and leave without fixing the problem
    Answer: a
---
7. What is an appropriate response to a customer who is demanding something unreasonable or impossible?
    a) Calmly leave the location and mark it on the work order
    b) Calmly and patiently tell them what you are able to do, not what you cannot do
    c) Calmly leave without saying anything.
    Answer: b
---
8. What is a poor response when dealing with a rude customer?
    a) "Do you want this fixed or not?"
    b) "What would you like me to do to solve the problem you are having?"
    c) "I am not meeting your expectations. What can I do?"
    Answer: a
---
9. What is a good response to an abusive customer?
    a) "You are rude, and I do not have to take this abuse, I am leaving"
    b) Say nothing, turn around and leave
    c) "I am sorry, but if you cannot speak to me on a professional basis, I will have to leave"
    Answer: c
---
10. What should you do when a customer becomes unruly or threatening?
    a) Seek assistance. If violence is threatened, call the police
    b) Shut off the fuel supply and mark the work order that the system has been tagged
    c) Lock the meter or shut off the fuel supply and lock it
	Answer: a
---
11. Match the word that best completes each sentence/ statement:
    Utilizing listening techniques assures the _________ customer of your attentiveness to their problem: 
    _________ to a customer's remarks in a confident, serious, and professional manner indicates you understand the seriousness of their concerns:
    Ensuring you do not display _________ body language or speak to the customer in a detrimental manner shows your respect for him/her:
    Listening for _________ as well as facts assists the gas technician/fitter in assessing the urgency the customer has in having the problem resolved:
    By taking notes when the customer is explaining what they've _________ noticed, you are indicating to the customer you his/her input:
    Using the proper choice of words that show _________ for the customer's concerns and offer the promise of a resolution to the customer's problem is likely to develop a spirit of cooperation between the gas technician/ fitter and the customer:
	a) Arrogant
	b) Effective
	c) Responding
	d) Value
	e) Empathy
	f) Feelings
---
12. Match the appropriate type of customer to each example provided.
    Customer begins to tell you about how their day is going—turn the topic of conservation towards the specific trouble—the complaint:
    Customer tends to answer questions with a yes or no—pose questions that require full sentence answers:
    Customer is shouting—listen attentively, let the customer continue until their anger is defused:
    Customer insists on being uncooperative—make comments directed towards finding a solution to the problem:
    Customer tone of voice indicates anger, but the words do not—try to get the customer to talk about what is the concern:
	a) Unresponsive customer
	b) Talkative customer
	c) Customer suppressing anger
	d) Obstinate customer
	e) Hostile customer
---
13. Match the statement with its corresponding description.
    Customer suddenly displays a clenched fist and tense body posture:
    Avoid wearing expensive jewelry:
    Entering a home where the customer or another adult representative is not on the premises at all times:
    When in the customers home, they become agitated and start using an aggressive tone of voice:
    If feeling threatened, get away to a safe location:
    Entering a home where young children or minors are alone on the premises—no adult supervision: 
    Putting yourself in a situation that could result in personal and company reputations and actions being criticized:
    Being more cautious at night: 
	a) A circumstance that could put you at risk
	b) A circumstance that could put you at risk
	c) Personal safety tip
	d) Personal safety tip
	e) Dealing with potential violence
	f) Dealing with potential violence
	g) Personal safety tip
	h) A circumstance that could put you at risk
---
## Assignment Questions – Chapter 4
1. Which is the better way of communicating with a person who speaks little English?
    a) Speaking slower
    b) Speaking louder
    c) Speaking louder and slower
    Answer: a
---
2. What is a possible alternative to speaking when you are trying to communicate with a customer who has heavily accented English?
    a) Advise the customer someone else will attend.
    b) Have the customer try to write his/her request.
    c) Point and speak loudly.
    Answer: b
---
3. How may cultural differences affect work schedules?
    a) Someone who is of the same background would have to attend.
    b) Cultural differences don't affect work schedules.
    c) Work may have to be scheduled around religious or cultural practices.
    Answer: c
---