## Assignment Questions - Chapter 1
1. Match the appropriate word(s) to best complete the following statements:
    A venting system provides for the removal of _________ to the Fresh air outside atmosphere:
    A venting system provides for the prevention of damage from _________ :
    A venting system provides for the protection of the building structure from _________ hazard:
    A venting system provides for the supply of _________ to the burner:
    a) Fresh air
    b) Fire
    c) Condensation
    d) Flue gas
---
2. What two products are produced by the complete combustion of natural gas or propane?
    a) Carbon dioxide, water vapour
    b) Carbon monoxide, oxygen
    c) Carbon dioxide, oxygen
    d) Carbon monoxide, water vapour
---
3. What are the conditions that provide a natural draft venting system with the greatest amount of draft?
    a) Low stack temperature, high outdoor temperature, high stack height
    b) High stack temperature, high outdoor temperature, high stack height
    c) High stack temperature, low outdoor temperature, high stack height
    d) Low stack temperature, low outdoor temperature, high stack height
---
4. What device allows dilution air to enter the venting system of an atmospherically fired appliance?
    a) Combustion air opening
    b) Burner air shutter
    c) Draft hood
---
5. Which type of vent is required when flue gas temperatures exceed 470°F (243 °C)?
    a) B vent
    b) BW vent
    c) Chimney
    d) L vent
---
6. Which type of vent has a double-wall construction with a dead air space between the walls?
    a) BW vent
    b) L vent
    c) B vent
---
7. Which type of vent draws in combustion air and emits flue gases from the same vent?
    a) Power vent
    b) BH vent
    c) Direct vent
    d) Single-wall vent
---
8. How does increasing vent temperature or height affect the draft of a natural draft (buoyancy vented) venting system?
    a) It decreases the draft
    b) It does not affect the draft
    c) It increases the draft
---
9. To what ULC Standard must all plastic material used in type "BH" venting systems be approved?
    a) ULC Standard CAN4-S605
    b) ULC Standard S636
    c) ULC Standard S609
---
10. Select the appropriate word(s) to complete the following sentences:
    A double-acting _________ swings in to regulate the stack draft and also swings out to relieve a down-draft into the room:
    Many domestic gas burners are of the atmospheric type and require a neutral over fire draft in the combustion chamber. _________ maintains this neutral pressure over the fire:
    A _________ with a clay tile liner can be lined with a metallic liner system:
    A _________ relies on the upward movement of hot gases:
    a) Chimney
    b) Natural draft vent
    c) Draft hood
    d) Barometric damper
---
11. When is a single-acting barometric damper allowed on a propane or natural gas appliance?
    a) When connected to the same chimney as an oil-fired appliance.
    b) For an incinerator only
    c) When connected to the same chimney as a wood-fired appliance.
---
12. What determines the adjustment of a barometric damper?
    a) The type of burner and combustion chamber and/or the manufacturer's literature.
    b) The damper is preset based on the input of the appliance.
---
13. How many screws are required at each joint of single wall venting material?
    a) At least two
    b) One to prevent the vent from separating
    c) Three
---
## Assignment Questions - Chapter 2
1. What term is used to describe a burner flame that moves back through the burner nozzle?
    a) Delayed ignition
    b) Lazy flame
    c) Flashback
---
2. Through which device is fuel discharged to an atmospheric burner?
    a) Orifice
    b) Burner venturi
    c) Burner ports
---
3. Which type of atmospheric burner produces a single large flame?
    a) Induced draft
    b) Single or mono-port burner
    c) Forced draft
---
4. Drilled port, drilled pipe, slotted port, and ribbon port are all types of what?
    a) Single port atmospheric burners
    b) Radiant head atmospheric burners
    c) Multiport atmospheric burners
    d) Pulse combustion atmospheric burners
---
5. What is the recommended maximum port diameter for drilled port atmospheric burners?
    a) No. 29 drill
    b) No. 12 drill
    c) No. 42 drill
    d) No. 56 drill
---
6. What is the recommended minimum port diameter for drilled port atmospheric burners?
    a) No. 56 drill
    b) No. 12 drill
    c) No. 42 drill
    d) No. 29 drill
---
7. What type of burner has combustion air supplied by a fan or blower under sufficient pressure to overcome the restriction of the burner and the appliance?
    a) Fan assisted burner
    b) Natural draft burner
    c) Forced draft burner
---
8. Match the appropriate word(s) to best complete the following statements:
    _________ use a mechanical device to mix the required amounts of air and gas before ignition.
    The _________ uses air under pressure to entrain gas at atmospheric pressure.
    The _________ provides complete premixing with mechanical mixers.
    a) Aspirator type of burner
    b) Premix burners
    c) Blower-mix burner
---
9. What type of burner has a fan located downstream of the combustion zone?
    a) Forced draft burner
    b) Induced draft burner
    c) Atmospheric burner
---
10. What device is used to regulate gas supply to an aspirator-type burner?
    a) Zero governor
    b) Orifice
    c) Blower mixer
---
11. Which atmospheric burners are most susceptible to flashback?
    a) Ribbon burners
    b) Ring burners
    c) Mono-port
---
12. What helps to keep the flame retained at the burner port of a mono-port burner?
    a) Gas pressure
    b) Flame spreader
    c) Crimped ring
---
13. What is a "multiport" burner susceptible to?
    a) Clogging with lint from the inside
    b) Delayed ignition
    c) Sooting
---
## Assignment Questions - Chapter 3
1. Aerated and non-aerating are types of what?
    a) Ignition systems
    b) Flame sensing devices
    c) Pilot burners
---
2. What is the most common problem associated with aerated pilots?
    a) Clogging due to dust or lint
    b) Lifting or blowing
    c) Noisy
---
3. When you discover a noisy, lifting, blowing flame on a non-aerating pilot, what is the cause of the problem?
    a) High gas pressure
    b) Low gas pressure
    c) Blocked vent
    d) Orifice too large
---
4. When you discover a hard, sharp flame on an aerating pilot, what is the cause of the problem?
    a) High gas pressure
    b) Orifice too large
    c) Orifice too small
    d) Excessive draft at pilot location
---
5. Select the appropriate term to complete the following sentence:
    When a flame detector that acts to prevent gas from flowing to the main burner, unless a proper pilot flame is proven, monitors a pilot flame, you call this flame a _________.
    a) Proven pilot
    b) Proved pilot
    c) Intermittent pilot
    d) Standing pilot
---
6. How is a piezoelectric voltage generated?
    a) Through a mechanical force
    b) Through a battery
---
7. How has the use of modern automatic ignition systems affected the time in which a flame failure is detected?
    a) Flame failure rarely occurs as a result of modern ignition systems
    b) Flame failure is detected much faster
    c) There are fewer delayed ignitions
---
8. What causes the bimetal strip to curve with changes in temperature?
    a) One side of the strip is shorter than the other side.
    b) The welding temperature is too high
    c) The two metals that are joined have different temperature coefficients of expansion.
---
9. What causes the resistance of a thermistor to change?
    a) A temperature change
    b) Humidity
    c) Time
---
10. Match the following terms to their corresponding definitions:
    Remains on all the time:
    Remains on during the firing cycle:
    Is turned on to light the main flame and is extinguished after the flame has been proved:
    a) Intermittent pilot
    b) Interrupted pilot
    c) Constant pilot
---
## Assignment Questions - Chapter 4
1. What is the purpose of an operating aquastat?
    a) To maintain water pressure in a boiler system.
    b) To ensure water flow.
    c) To energize or de-energize the main gas valve in response to the water temperature.
---
2. Is the temperature setting of a high-limit aquastat higher or lower than the setting of the operating aquastat?
    a) Lower
    b) Higher
    c) The same
---
3. Does the furnace fan continue to run if the high-limit switch opens the furnace control circuit?
    a) Yes
    b) No
---
4. What causes the contacts of a steam boiler operating pressuretrol to open?
    a) The water level in the boiler increases
    b) A rise in steam pressure
    c) The water level in the boiler decreases
---
5. What activates a flame roll-out switch?
    a) Spillage of flue products from the draft hood opening
    b) The opening of the high limit
    c) A rise in temperature
---
6. Match the following terms to their corresponding definitions:
    Senses the operation of a circulating pump:
    A water temperature sensing device that will shut off the burner (s) if the temperature exceeds the desired operating range of the boiler or water heater:
    Shuts off the burner(s) in the event that the pressure in a boiler exceeds its desired operating range:
    Turns a steam boiler on and off to maintain a desired steam pressure:
    Turns a boiler or water heater on and off to maintain a desired water temperature:
    Shuts the burner(s) off if the water level in a system falls below a desired point:
    Allows hot water or steam to escape from a system if the pressure exceeds a preset maximum value:
    Shuts down the burners in the event of a failure to vent flue products from the combustion chamber:
    Is used in a forced air furnace and has 2 functions: 1) turns the fan on and off in response to sensing heat in the combustion chamber; 2) shuts down the burners when combustion chamber temperature exceeds a preset value:
    Allows water to escape if temperature or pressure exceeds a preset value inside a hot water heater:
    Senses air movement using a paddle attached to a micro-switch:
    Shuts off the burners if the vent is totally blocked:
    a) Flame roll-out switch
    b) High limit pressure switch
    c) Operating aquastat
    d) Blocked vent shut off system (spill switch)
    e) Low water cut-off switch
    f) Pressure switch
    g) Operating pressure switch
    h) High temperature aquastat
    i) Pressure relief valve
    j) Combination high limit/fan control switch
    k) Flow Switch
    l) Temperature and pressure relief valve
---
## Assignment Questions - Chapter 5
1. Which of the following is not a way in which heat is transferred?
    a) Vibration
    b) Conduction
    c) Radiation
    d) Convection
---
2. In which direction does heat energy flow?
    a) It flows from cold to warm
    b) It flows from warm to cold
---
3. What happens when a fluid is heated?
    a) It expands and becomes lighter
    b) It reduces volume.
    c) It boils
---
4. What controls the drying period of a gas-fired clothes dryer?
    a) The thermostat
    b) Moisture sensor or timer
    c) The high limit
---
5. What normally controls the automatic gas valve found on a forced warm-air furnace?
    a) The high limit control
    b) The air circulating fan
    c) A thermostat mounted in the space being heated
---
6. Where is the blower located on a down-flow furnace?
    a) Above the heat exchanger
    b) Below the heat exchanger
    c) At the same level as the heat exchanger
---
7. Name two ways in which the burner can be controlled on a Unit heater.
    a) Opening a window, manual shut off valve on the gas line
    b) A wall-mounted thermostat, manual switch
---
8. What factor must be considered when installing swimming pool heaters that would not be a concern with a hot-water space-heating boiler?
    a) High flow rate
    b) Low water temperature
    c) Thermostat location
---
9. Which of the following conditions are not regulated in a hot water boiler?
    a) Firing of the boiler
    b) Boiler water temperature
    c) Venting pressure
    d) Circulating pump
---
10. Which type of water heating system can be used for both domestic hot water supply and space heating?
    a) Combination Unit
    b) Any power vented water heater.
    c) Fin-type boiler
---
11. How is the heat directed to the floor in a low-intensity infrared heater?
    a) By the use of ceiling fan
    b) Through convection
    c) The tubes radiate heat to the reflectors which in turn direct the heat to the floor
---
12. What three types of gas-fired Units are used to heat a single room or other small areas?
    a) Room space heaters, Wall furnace, Baseboard heater
    b) Room space heaters, Steam boiler, Baseboard heater
    c) Baseboard heater, Room space heater, Infrared heater
---
13. Indicate True or False:
    Many gas-fired rooftop Units provide both heating and cooling functions.
    a) True
    b) False
---
## Assignment Questions - Chapter 6
1. Complete the following sentence:
    Only authorized individuals are permitted to perform fuel type conversion on appliances with inputs of _________.
    a) 400 000 Btu/h or more
    b) 200 000 Btu/h or less
    c) 400 000 Btu/h or less
    d) 200 000 Btu/h or more
---
2. Which of the following factors does not affect the sizing of the burner orifice?
    a) Type of gas
    b) Position of the burner in relation to the pilot
    c) Appliance input
    d) Manifold pressure
---
3. Under what conditions may an appliance not certified for conversion be converted?
    a) The conversion must be tested and labelled by the inspection authority or an agency authorized by the inspection authority
    b) The orifice must be properly sized and the pressure properly regulated
---
4. If gas supply piping must be changed when converting an appliance, what must be done with the old piping?
    a) The old piping can be cleaned and restocked for further use with the same fuel it was used for previously
    b) The piping cannot be used for the same fuel
    c) Old piping is to be removed or abandoned in a safe manner
---
5. What device is normally used to check the manifold gas pressure of a newly converted appliance?
    a) A manometer
    b) A spring gauge
---
6. Where would you find information on propane orifice sizing?
    a) The manufacturers and the propane storage and handling code
    b) The manufactures and the propane storage and handling regulation
    c) The propane storage and handling regulation and the propane storage and handling code
---
7. What are the installer's responsibilities regarding the propane supply system when conducting a conversion from propane to natural gas and the propane tank is no longer going to be used?
    a) Shut off all valves, disconnect the pipe or tubing, plug the openings
    b) Shut off all valves and dispose of the tank
    c) Nothing, the tank is the customer's responsibility
---
8. Who must test and label the appliance if the manufacturer does not make a similar model in the fuel the appliance is to be converted to?
    a) The person doing the conversion
    b) The homeowner
    c) The inspection authority or an agency authorized by the inspection authority (field approved)
---
9. What must be done after any conversion to ensure the input is correct?
    a) Test the manifold pressure
    b) Visually check the flame
    c) Check the safety system works properly (thermostat, high limit)
---
## Assignment Questions - Chapter 7
1. The venting system is the first system to check before reactivating an appliance.
    Put the following checks in the order they should be performed:
    Check exterior venting systems:
    Check vents:
    Check interior venting systems:
    a) Step 1
    b) Step 2
    c) Step 3
---
2. What does scorching on the appliance combustion chamber or surrounding area indicate?
    a) Overheating
    b) Incomplete combustion
    c) Corrosion
---
3. What does scaling on the appliance combustion chamber or surrounding area indicate?
    a) Incomplete combustion
    b) Heat exchanger cracks
    c) Corrosion
---
4. How long must the gas pressure be indicated on the manometer (or pressure testing gauge)?
    a) 5 minutes
    b) 10 minutes
    c) 2 minutes
---
5. What procedure must be performed on the control valves and piping before appliance light-up?
    a) Visual inspection for alignment
    b) Soap test
    c) Use a lit taper at all connections downstream of the control valve to check for leaks
---
6. Indicate True or False:
    The main valve to a natural gas regulator/meter set should be turned on quickly when reactivating a system.
    a) True
    b) False
---
7. Why is it necessary to make sure there are no open lines when activating a system?
    a) To prevent an explosion
    b) To allow for the regulator to lock up
    c) To prevent asphyxiation of persons in the area
---
8. What is the purpose of a meter "dial test"?
    a) To ensure the meter is measuring properly
    b) To test for leaks in the system up to the inlets of the gas controls
---
9. Why is it important to examine the chimney or vent stack when visiting a premise to work on gas equipment?
    a) To reduce the risk of CO poisoning due to venting system problems
    b) To ensure there are no animals in the vent that could get hurt
    c) To ensure the chimney or vent has been properly cleaned
---
10. What should be used as a reference when relighting an appliance?
    a) The directions listed with the igniter
    b) The lighting instructions on the appliance rating plate
    c) The Codebook
---
11. What is indicated if the interior of a draft diverter is coated with black powder?
    a) The vent needs to be replaced
    b) The burner either needs adjustment or cleaning
    c) The appliance needs to be replaced
---